Good to see you again.
In this optional video,
you're going to learn about the intuition
behind the logistic
regression cost function.
Specifically, you will understand why
the cost function is designed that way.
You will see what happens when
you predict the true label and
you'll see what happens,
when you predict the wrong label.
Let's dive in and see how this logistic
regression cost function is designed.
Let's have a look now at
the equation of the cost function,
while this might look like
a big complicated equation,
it's actually rather straightforward, once
you break it down into its components.
First, have a look at the left hand side
of the equation where you find a sum over
the variable m, which is just the number
of training examples in your training set.
This indicates that you're going to sum
over the cost of each training example.
Out front, there is a -1/m,
indicating that when combined with the
sum, this will be some kind of average.
The minus sign ensures that your overall
costs will always be a positive number
as you'll see clearly later in this video.
Inside the square brackets, the equation
has two terms that are added together.
To consider what each of these terms
contribute to the cost function for
each training example, let's have
a look at each of them separately.
The term on the left is the product of
y superscript i, which is the label for
each training example,
most applied by the log of the prediction,
which is the logistic regression function
applied to each training example.
Represented as h of superscript i,
and a parameter theta.
Now, consider the case
when your label is 0.
In this case,
the function h can return any value, and
the entire term will be 0 because
0 times anything is just 0.
What about the case when your label is 1?
If your prediction is close to 1, then the
log of your prediction will be close to 0,
because, as you may recall,
the log of 1 is 0.
And the product will also be near 0.
If your label is 1, and
your prediction is close to 0,
then this term blows up and
approaches negative infinity.
Intuitively, now, you can see that this is
the relevant term in your cost function
when your label is 1.
When your prediction is close to
the label value, the loss is small,
and when your label and prediction
disagree, the overall cost goes up.
Now consider the term on the right hand
side of the cost function equation,
in this case, if your label is 1,
then the 1- y term goes to 0.
And so any value returned by the logistic
regression function will result in a 0 for
the entire term, because again,
0 times anything is just 0.
If your label is 0, and the logistic
regression function returns a value close
to 0, then the products in this
term will again be close to 0.
If on the other hand your label is 0 and
your prediction is close to 1, then
the log term will blow up and the overall
term will approach to negative infinity.
From this exercise you
can see now that there is
one term in the cost function that
is relevant when your label is 0,
and another that is relevant
when the label is 1.
In each of these terms, you're taking
the log of a value between 0 and
1, which will always return a negative
number, and so the minus sign out front
ensures that the overall cost
will always be a positive number.
Now, let's have a look at what
the cost function looks like for
each of the labels.
0 and 1,
overall possible prediction values.
First, we're going to look at
the loss when the label is 1.
In this plot, you have your prediction
value on the horizontal axis and
the cost associated with a single
training example on the vertical axis.
In this case J, of theta simplifies
to just negative log h(x(theta).
When your prediction is close to 1,
the loss is close to 0.
Because your prediction
agrees well with the label.
And when the prediction is close to 0,
the loss approaches infinity,
because your prediction and
the label disagree strongly.
The opposite is true when the label is 0.
In this case J(theta) reduces to
just minus log(1- h(x, theta).
Now when your prediction is close to 0,
the loss is also close to 0.
And when your prediction is close to 1,
the loss approaches infinity.
You now understand how the logistic
regression cost function works.
You saw what happened when you predicted
a 1 and the true label was a 1.
You also saw what happened when you
predicted a 0, and the true label was a 0.
In the next week,
you will learn about Naive Bayes,
which is a different type of
classification algorithm,
which also allows you to predict whether
a tweet is positive or negative.